When to reconsider Hadoop?
The Hadoop ecosystem is
growing at a fast pace.
This means a lot of stuff
that was difficult, or
not supportive, is becoming possible.
In this lecture,
we will look at some aspects that
clearly make a good match for Hadoop.
We will also look at several
aspects that might motivate you
to evaluate Hadoop at a deeper level.
And does Hadoop really make sense for
your specific problem?
First let's look at the key features
that make a problem Hadoop friendly.
If you see a large scale growth in
amount of data you will tackle,
probably it makes sense to use Hadoop.
When you want quick access to your old
data which would otherwise go on tape
drives for archival storage,
Hadoop might provide a good alternative.
Other Hadoop friendly features include
scenarios when you want to use multiple
applications over the same data store.
High volume or
high variety are also great indicators for
Hadoop as a platform choice.
Small data set processing
should raise your eyebrows.
Do you really need Hadoop for that?
Dig deeper, and find out exactly why you
want to use Hadoop before going ahead.
Hadoop is good for data parallelism.
As you know, data parallelism is
the simultaneous execution of the same
function on multiple nodes across
the elements of a dataset.
On the other hand, task parallelism,
as you see in this graph,
is the simultaneous execution
of many different functions
on multiple nodes across the same or
different data sets.
If your problem has task-level
parallelism, you must do further
analysis as to which tools you plan
to deploy from the Hadoop ecosystem.
What are the precise benefits
that these tools provide?
Proceed with caution.
Not all algorithms are scalable in Hadoop,
or
reducible to one of the programming
models supported by YARN.
Hence, if you are looking to deploy
highly coupled data processing algorithms
proceed with caution.
Do a thorough analysis
before using Hadoop.
Are you thinking of
throwing away your existing database
solutions and replacing them with Hadoop?
Think again.
Hadoop may be a good platform where
your diverse data sets can land and
get processed into a form
digestible with your database.
Hadoop may not be the best data store
solution for your business case.
Evaluate, and proceed with caution.
HDFS stores data in blocks
of 64 megabytes or larger,
so you may have to read an entire
file just to pick one data entry.
That makes it a bit harder to
perform random data access.
The Hadoop ecosystem is growing
at a faster pace than ever.
This slide shows some of the moving
targets in the Hadoop ecosystem and
the additional needs which
must be addressed by new tools
to the Hadoop ecosystem.
Mainly, advanced analytical queries,
latency sensitive tasks, and
cyber security of sensitive data.
Here, we give pointers to tools you
might want to look into further
to understand the challenges
these need tools address.
As a summary, although Hadoop is good with
scalability of many algorithms, it is just
one model and does not solve all issues
in managing and processing big data.
Although it would be possible to find
counterexamples, we can generally say
that the Hadoop framework is not the best
for working with small data sets,
advanced algorithms that require
a specific hardware type,
task level parallelism, infrastructure
replacement, or random data access.